
# Navigate the JSM schedule from the comfort of an R console

`jsm2022` is an R package with all the JSM talks.  It makes personalized recommendations for talks (based on citation network data) and exports your schedule as an ical file that can be loaded into Google Calendar and similar.

## About

We ([Jacob Bien](http://faculty.marshall.usc.edu/jacob-bien/) and Yibin Xiong) scraped the JSM program and wrangled decades of citation and coauthorship data from Semantic Scholar and Arxiv.  We have also included functionality for exporting your schedule as an ical that can be loaded into Google Calendar or similar. The result is a package that streamlines the process of finding talks that you may want to attend.  The first version of this was done as a web app for JSM 2019 with Ronak Upadhyaya.  `jsm2022` was written using literate programming.  In particular, the entire package was generated by "litr-knitting" [a single Rmd file](../create-jsm2022.Rmd).  To learn more about the `litr` package and the literate programming approach to writing R packages, see [here](https://github.com/jacobbien/litr-project/tree/main/litr).

## Getting started

To install the package:

``` r
remotes::install_github("jacobbien/jsm2022-project", subdir = "jsm2022")
```
 
An example of the sort of thing you can do with the package:

``` r
library(jsm2022)
my_coauthors <- get_coauthors("Jacob Bien") # Name as it appears in JSM program
people_cited_by_me <- get_out_citations("Jacob Bien")
people_citing_me <- get_in_citations("Jacob Bien")
some_people <- c(my_coauthors, people_cited_by_me[1:20], people_citing_me[1:20])
schedule <- get_talks(speakers = some_people)
```

This produces a data frame of talks.  See `?get_talks` for the other ways you can filter talks.  Finally, you can export this in the ical format, which can be imported into Google Calendar and other standard calendars:

``` r
export_calendar_to_ics(schedule, file = "jsm-talks.ics")
```
